# Programs and Hardware
## Word Meanings
- Programs: they are just some instructions that tell our computer what to do
- EDB (External Data Bus): row of wires that interconnect components of our computer [[2. programs and hardware#^fa9110|More Info here]]
- MCC (Memory Controller Chip): bridge between CPU & RAM
- Address Bus:  Connects CPU to MCC
- Cache: lets store data we use often & lets us quickly reference it (smaller than RAM)
- Clock Speed: Max. number of clock cyles that it can handle in a certain time period
- Overclocking: increases the rate of your CPU clock cycles in order to perform more tasks

## Content
Computer has an in-built translation book which it uses to translate our language and convert it to the language which it can understand.

### Programs
- Store it in durable media. Eg: Hard Drive
- Apps stored in a hard drive = cooking recipes in a cook book
- CPU = chef (faster our chef makes the food, the more food will be made)
	- We send recipes and it processes it and makes it
	- Chef can cook faster than it can read
- Copy of recipes -> RAM
	- RAM stores info in a location where CPU can access faster than our hard-drive
- CPU can only read 0s and 1s. So we have to send info and then it will get converted to binary first


#### How does binary DATA TRAVEL AROUND THE COMPUTER?
^fa9110
Using EDB. 
When voltage passed -> state ON -> 1
No Voltage -> state OFF -> 0
We can only send 1 line of data through EDB at a time


### CPU
Inside CPU -> registers
Register let us store the data that our CPU works with
We don't actually send data from RAM over the EDB. RAM can hold billions of rows of data

CPU to MCC: I need those instructions for step 68
Address bus: _Sends over location of data, not data itself_
MCC: _takes this location of data and looks for it_
MCC: _finds instructions for step 68 in RAM, grabs data, sends it -> EDB_

RAM isn't fastest way to get data for processing
CPU also uses Cache

3 different cache levels:
- L1 (Smallest and fastest) 
- L2 
- L3
- rarely even L4

#### HOW DOES OUR CPU KNOW WHEN A SET OF INSTRUCTIONS ENDS AND A NEW BEGINS?
CPU has internal clock 
Internal clock -> keeps it's operations in sync
Connects to a special wire called Clock Wire
When --> or <-- data
sends a voltage to that clock wire to let the CPU know that it can start doing calculations
Clock Wire -> ticking of clock
for every tick, CPU does 1 set of operations
When we send voltage to clock wire -> clock cycle
ghz unit refers to clock speed of CPU
3.40 ghz is 3.4 bil. cycles/s
just means it can't exceed this number

There's a way we can exceed the no. of clock cyles on CPU on almost any device. It's known as **Overclocking**. 
Overclocking is used to increase performance on low-end CPUs. 